README.md, before:

# Monaco Kusto

Kusto language plugin for the Monaco Editor. It provides the following features when editing CSL, KQL files:

-   Code completion
-   Syntax highlighting
-   Validation: Syntax errors and linting
-   code folding / outlining
-   Hovers
-   Find definition
-   find all references
-   rename symbol

## Usage

`npm install @kusto/monaco-editor` or `yarn add @kusto/monaco-editor`

### Package content

-   `/esm` Contains esm version of the library
-   `/dev` Contains an AMD version of the library
-   `/min` Contains a minified AMD version of the library

### AMD module system:

Example at ![https://github.com/Azure/monaco-kusto/tree/master/samples/amd]()

1. Run `npm run copyMonacoFilesAMD <path>` or `yarn copyMonacoFilesAMD <path>` where <path> is where you want the monaco and kusto amd modules to be. These files will need to be served as-in.
2. Using a amd module loader, import `vs/language/kusto/monaco.contribution`
    1. The monaco editors included loader can be made available via a global require `require` by adding the script tag: `<script src="<path>/vs/loader.js"></script>`
3. You should now be able to create monaco editors with `language: 'kusto'`. The kusto worker can be reached via the monaco global: `monaco.languages.kusto.getKustoWorker()`

### ESM

Parcel example at ![https://github.com/Azure/monaco-kusto/tree/master/samples/parcel]()

1. Configure your bundler so `@kusto/monaco-kusto/release/esm/kusto.worker` has it's own entry point
2. Configure monaco with that entry point and to use `globalAPI` using the `MonacoEnvironment`. This global needs to be set _before_ the monaco editor source is parsed so it will create a global api for this package to use.
    1. And example of steps 1 & 2 can be seen here: [./samples/parcel/index.html](). This was added to the html file to prevent parcel from including the monaco javascript above it
3. You should now be able to create monaco editors with `language: 'kusto'`. The kusto worker can be reached via the monaco global: `monaco.languages.kusto.getKustoWorker()`

### Setting a schema

There are 2 APIs to set a Kusto schema:

1. `setSchema` - the passed schema is of type `ClusterType` (defined in `schema.ts`).
   The database in ROOT.database will be the one in context.
2. `setSchemaFromShowSchema` - a method to set a schema from the result of the Kusto query `.show schema as json`.
   The result is a list of databases (see interface `Result` in `schema.ts`), so when this method is used,
   it also requires a cluster URI and the name of the database in context.

## Contributing

### Setting up a dev environment

1. Install Node.js 16 from https://nodejs.org/
2. Install Yarn from https://yarnpkg.com/
3. Clone repo and run `yarn` in repo root
4. Run `yarn watch` from /package and a live-server will automatically open the index.html

### Build for release

1. Set CI environment variable to "tru"
2. Run `yarn build`

## Changelog

### 6.0.0

-   Improved quality of AMD build artifacts
-   BREAKING CHANGE: AMD build artifacts now include a new "main" file that
    contains shared code
-   BREAKING CHANGE: ESM build artifacts no longer vender dependencies in a
    "deps" folder. node_modules imports are left as-is, and are now in
    package.json#dependencies

### 4.1.8

-   fix: trigger suggestion when previous suggestion selected.

### 4.1.6

-   fix: low color contrast for foreground/background in suggestWidget for dark theme

### 4.1.3

-   fix: low color contrast for foreground/background in suggestWidget

### 4.0.6

-   fix: `setSchemaFromShowSchema` now supports for external tables.

### 4.0.3

-   fix: update language service to latest version. fixes issues with scan operator being shown first in completion list.

### 4.0.2

-   fix: don't do kusto specific highlighting when other language is selected.

### 4.0.0

-   BREAKING CHANGE: update monaco-editor-core and monaco-editor version to 0.24.0
-   Usage for ESM modules: add `globalAPI: true` in window.MonacoEnvironment declaration to have `monaco` on the window

### 3.3.12

-   fix: external table erroneously shown for materialized views

### 3.2.11

-   feat: update language service

### 3.2.10

-   feat: expose custom syntax error message options

### 3.2.9

-   feat: update language service to support python code strings

### 3.2.8

-   fix: `RenderOptions` type missing `null` property union variants

### 3.2.7

-   fix: errors are shown twice on hover

### 3.2.6

-   update language service.

### 3.2.5

-   Expose formatting options

### 3.2.4

-   Bug fix: `union *` is auto-formatted into `union*`

### 3.2.3

-   Bug fix: Intellisense doesn't show columns when using this syntax `materialized_view("<table name>") | where `

### 3.2.2

-   Bug Fix: In `mv-expand kind=array` kind is shown with a squiggly error line
-   Update @kusto/language-service-next

### 3.2.1

-   Colorize public query options.
-   Bug Fix: Format query hangs in some use cases.

### 3.2.0

-   A function validation fails (shows squiggly red lines), if the function is defined with a parameter that has a default value, but it is used without passing a value for that parameter.
-   Fix bug: Scalars function parameters are always showing "Table expected" error with squiggly error red line when using setSchemaFromShowSchema.

### 3.1.0-beta.3

-   Missing tokens are no longer added when formatting queries.

### 3.0.1

-   Fix exception "Cannot read property 'getText' of null TypeError: Cannot read property 'getText' of null at e.parseDocumentV2"
-   Added a sample react project

### 3.0.0

-   Upgrade to latest monaco (which includes many changes amongst them accessibility improvements)

### 2.1.15

-   Fix typo in 2.1.14.

### 2.1.14

-   Add a theme with a darker background color.

### 2.1.13

-   Fix error "Database has no tables".

### 2.1.12

-   Allow formatting commands in cursor location.

### 2.1.11

-   Upgrade to latest bridge.net which fixes an exception from indexOf.

### 2.1.10

-   Schema with no functions was throwing "Cannot read property 'map' of undefined".

### 2.1.9

-   Add DocString to onHover tooltip

### 2.1.6

-   Update language service.

### 2.1.5

-   Updated render kind typing to include map.

### 2.1.4

#### Added

-   Added `enableHover` option to languages settingss.

### 2.1.3

#### Added

-   Added `onDidProvideCompletionItems` to languages settings as callback function for doComplete operations.

### 2.1.2

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `getCommandsInDocumentV2` not to take new lines as command.

### 2.1.1

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `doRangeFormat` to work with all kind of user text selection.

### 2.1.0

#### Added

-   Added esm release bundles.
-   Added package.json scripts to replace gulp completely.

### 2.0.9

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `getRenderInfo` in cases where there is not with clause.

### 2.0.8

#### Bug fix

-   Some more type fixes.

### 2.0.7

#### Bug fix

-   Fixed typings.

### 2.0.6

#### Added

-   Added `getRenderInfo` that returns the render command visualization options in a query.

### 2.0.5

#### Added

-   Added `setParameters` that set parameters to the schema without providing the entire schema.

### 2.0.4

#### Added

-   Added `getReferencedGlobalParams` that returns the global (ambient) parameters that are actually being referenced in the query.

### 2.0.3

#### Bug fix

-   Control command completion bug fix (updating intellisense library)

### 2.0.2

#### Bug fix

-   null pointer exception fix.

### 2.0.1

#### Bug fix

-   actually made the change described in 2.0.0

### 2.0.0 (11/20/2019)

#### Added

-   **[Breaking]** Change default to use intellisense V2

### 1.1.19 (11/18/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   fix exception in CM & DM clusters when intellisenseV2 is on

### 1.1.18 (11/18/2019)

#### Added

-   Abiltiy to get global parameters in scope (getGlobalParams)).

### 1.1.17 (11/14/2019)

#### Added

-   Ability to injet global parameters to intellisense (in setSchema)

### 1.1.16 (10/28/2019)

#### Added

-   Updated language service
-   Fix corrupt monaco.d.ts

### 1.1.15 (10/25/2019)

#### Added

-   Introduce a new function in language service called `getQueryParams`. it will return an array of all delcared query parameters for the query on cursor.

### 1.1.14 (9/16/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix 1.1.13 to return ranges based on 1 (as monaco expects) rather than 0 (as kusto language server returns).

### 1.1.13 (9/14/2019)

#### Added

-   Introduce a new function in language service called `getCommandAndLocationInContext`.
    it will return both the text and the range of the command in context.

### 1.0.12 (9/4/2019)

#### Added

-   Update language service to latest version.

### 1.0.11 (8/22/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix IE compatibility issue (remove new URL usage)

### 1.0.10 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix broken dependency on language service.

### 1.0.9 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   don't suggest chart types that we do not support yet.

### 1.0.8 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   don't kill web worker after 2 minutes of inactivity by default. Reason: In exterme cases where schema is very large, trying to stringify the schema in web worker causes an OOM. This is configurable though.

### 1.0.6 (6/6/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix broken Diagnostics

### 1.0.5 (6/5/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix vulnerability in dependency

### 1.0.4 (5/31/2019)

#### Added

-   Support for adding and removing line comments with keyboard shortcut.
-   Support hover

### 1.0.3 (5/31/2019)

#### Added

-   Support for go-to definition, find all refrences, rename symbol.

### 1.0.0 (1/31/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   **[Breaking]** put minified versions of language serivce in npm package.
-   **[How to migrate]**:
    include the .min (minified files) rather than the unminified files (which are no longer available)
    ```xml
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/bridge.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/kusto.javascript.client.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/newtonsoft.json.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/Kusto.Language.Bridge.min.js"></script>
    ```

### 0.2.2 (12/28/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Increase contrast of operators in syntax highlighting.

### 0.2.2-alpha2 (12/21/2018)

#### Added

-   Updated dependency @kusto/language-service-next.

### 0.2.2-alpha (12/21/2018)

#### Added

-   Updated dependency on @kusto/language-service.

### 0.2.0 (12/14/2018)

#### Added

-   **[Breaking]** Support monaco-editor v15. This removes supprot for pre 15 versions.

### 0.1.27 (11/14/2018)

#### Added

-   Abiltiy to suppress completion items from intellisense.

### 0.1.26 (10/31/2018)

#### Added

-   Dark theme support (set by calling monaco.editor.setTheme('kusto.dark'))

### 0.1.25 (10/09/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Don't try to run logic on disposed models.

### 0.1.22 (9/27/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Format current command always formatted the 1st command.

### 0.1.21 (9/23/2018)

#### Added

-   Removed completion options that arent' curerntly supported.

### 0.1.19

#### Bug fix

-   Colorization didn't work when asked to colorize entire document

### 0.1.18

#### Added

-   Updated language server dependnecy to latest version.

### 0.1.16

#### Bug Fix

-   improve V2 intellisense colorization performance.

### 0.1.15

#### Bug Fix

-   V2 intellisense now correctly reverts to V1 for control commands.

### 0.1.14

#### Bug Fix

-   Add decimal support to V2 instllisense .

### 0.1.13

#### Bug Fix

-   Fix v2 intellisense.

### 0.1.12

#### Bug Fix

-   fix quirks in interactions between non-semantic and semantic colorization by not using semantic coloring to color plain text.

### 0.1.11

#### Bug Fix

-   Fixed an issue where colorization is working on an older vesion of the document, which results in wrong colorization.

### 0.1.6

### Bug Fixes

-   Intellisense didn't work properly when editing in the middle of a block that is not the 1st block on the page.
-   Monarch colorization now colorizes sub-opeators the same as semantic colorization (which makes the changes less jarring when completing semantic colorization).
-   When switching context, colorization didn't recolorize.
-   (perf) Only colorize the currently edited block(s) - this supports multi-cursor editing
-   (perf) don't deeply parse the entire doc when doing completion. just get the list of commands and then parse the relevant command's all tokns.

### 0.1.1

### Added

-   removed semantic colorization from main thread. From now on basic colorization (schema-unaware) will happen on main thread, and semantic colorization will happen in background thread. This should improve typing performance
    on long rows, or on large databases.

### 0.1.0

#### Added

-   Support for DM intellisense

### 0.96

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix incorrect column types

### 0.95

#### Bug Fixes

-   upgrade to latest kusto.javascript.client (based on a newer version of bridge.net and the code itself)

### 0.94

#### Bug Fixes

-   upgrade to latest Kusto.Language.Bridge (based on a newer version of bridge.net and the code itself)

### 0.93

#### Bug Fixes

-   improve performance for function parsing by levaraging new functionality in Kusto.Language.Bridge.

### 0.91

#### Bug Fixes

-   Update langauge service dependencies to versions with unified bridge.net version and bridge.json settings.

### 0.90

#### Bug Fixes

-   **[breaking]** Cache clutsser schema in memory. This breaks backward compatibility since it now requries schema to include minor and major version of databases.

### 0.89

#### Bug Fixes

-   Upgrade version of Kusto.Language.Bridge so solve some issues.

### 0.88

#### Functionality

-   enable get current command logic to V2.

### 0.86

#### Bug Fixes

-   Fix ability to set schema using .show schema as json.

### 0.85

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix bug that caused diagnostics and colorizaiton to be wrong until first text was typed.

### 0.76

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix bug that rendered validation unusable

### 0.74

#### Functionality

-   Add colorization support to intellisense API v2

### 0.73

#### Functionality

-   Add functions support to intellisense API V2

### 0.72

#### Functionality

-   update version of @kusto/language-service-next to 0.0.10, integrated following functionality:

1. library orders items on its own, so no need to order in monaco-kusto
2. add support for the cursor not ending in the end of the completion text (like in the 1st parmaeter7 of a function for example)
3. add '|' after table name

-   Make sure to never parse the same text more than once.

### 0.71

#### Functionality

-   add diagnostics (a.k.a error message) support (when v2 parser enabled).

### 0.70

#### Functionality

-   add folding (a.k.a outlining) support. one can now fold commands and hide them from screen.

### 0.69

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]** - introduce new intellisense library (off by default).
    requires adding the following line to code

```html
<script src="../node_modules/kusto-language-service/kusto.javascript.client.js"></script>
```

### 0.68

#### Bug Fixes

-   **[breaking]** - Update monaco-editor peer dependency to "^0.12.0" because of bug fixes performed there. Also making the
    dependency more permissive (allow later minor versions).

### 0.67

#### Bug Fixes

-   Add missing dependency bridge newtonsoft.json.js to npm package.

### 0.65

#### Functionality

-   updated @kusto/lagnuage-service to latest version. this contains the latest operators, documentation, and charting logic.

### 0.64

#### Bug Fixes

-   Added peer dependency for `monaco-editor@0.11` so that consumers of the package get a warning if their version of monaco is too old.

### 0.63

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]** - The package now requires `monaco-editor@0.11.1` to function correctly. adds support for markdown in intellisense documentation.

### 0.62

#### Functionality

-   Added `setSchemaFromShowSchema`: a new method to set a schema from the result of .show schema as json exewcution

### 0.61

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]**: make setSchema async so that big schemas do not block the ui thread (specifically - tokenization code is running in ui thread so it can block rendering).

### 0.60

#### Bug fixes

-   fixed label casing of `editor.action.kusto.formatCurrentCommand` command.

### 0.59

#### Functionality

-   add `getAdminCommand` method to `KustoWorker`, which returns an object with a boolean property signifying whether
    the text is an admin command, and a string property that contains the command without leading comments.

### 0.58

#### Bug fixes

-   null pointer exception when creating and destroying multiple monaco models

### 0.57

#### Functionality

-   add `getClientDirective` method to `KustoWorker`, which returns an object with a boolean property signifying whether
    the text is a client directive, and a string property that contains the directive without leading comments.

### 0.54

#### Bug fixes

-   fix getCurrentCommand bug when there are multiple commands in document

### 0.53

#### Bug fixes

-   fix intellisense issue when trying to get suggestions for a new query (2 newlines after previous query)

### 0.52

#### Bug fixes

-   command formatting and document formatting now work (ctrl K + ctrl F and alt+shift+F respectively)

### 0.49

#### Bug fixes

-   setSchema does not update syntax highlighting

# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

Commit message:

Support "globalApi: false" in esm output (#272)
Update monaco-kusto to support apps that don't have monaco's global api
enabled so our esm output can be used by Webpack.

A Webpack bug currently prevents monaco's globalApi from being enabled
because of a bug in it's transpiling.

## Changes
* Update source files to resolve monaco via import of
`monaco-editor/esm/vs/editor/editor.api` instead of a global variable.
* `editor.api` just includes the parts we need. `monaco-editor` includes
a lot of optional features and every language.
* Got types working with a lot of casts with isn't ideal. This could be
improved, but those improvements might not make sense for this PR.
* Update AMD build scripts to convert monaco import into a global
variable
* Remove "globalApi: true" config from Parcel ESM example
* Exported `monaco.languages.kusto` api from `monaco.contribution`.
We're not able to modify the types (I think?) of monaco's non-global
api. This new api gives consumers a type-safe version.
  * Updated Parcel example to use this.
* Update Parcel example to not build monaco workers for languages
besides Kusto

README.md, after:

# Monaco Kusto

Kusto language plugin for the Monaco Editor. It provides the following features when editing CSL, KQL files:

-   Code completion
-   Syntax highlighting
-   Validation: Syntax errors and linting
-   code folding / outlining
-   Hovers
-   Find definition
-   find all references
-   rename symbol

## Usage

`npm install @kusto/monaco-editor` or `yarn add @kusto/monaco-editor`

### Package content

-   `/esm` Contains esm version of the library
-   `/dev` Contains an AMD version of the library
-   `/min` Contains a minified AMD version of the library

### AMD module system:

Example at [/samples/amd](https://github.com/Azure/monaco-kusto/tree/master/samples/amd)

1. Run `npm run copyMonacoFilesAMD <path>` or `yarn copyMonacoFilesAMD <path>` where <path> is where you want the monaco and kusto amd modules to be. These files will need to be served as-in.
2. Using a amd module loader, import `vs/language/kusto/monaco.contribution`
    1. The monaco editors included loader can be made available via a global require `require` by adding the script tag: `<script src="<path>/vs/loader.js"></script>`
3. You should now be able to create monaco editors with `language: 'kusto'`. The kusto worker can be reached via the monaco global: `monaco.languages.kusto.getKustoWorker()`

### ESM

Parcel example at [/samples/parcel](https://github.com/Azure/monaco-kusto/tree/master/samples/parcel)

1. Configure your bundler so `@kusto/monaco-kusto/release/esm/kusto.worker` has it's own entry point
2. Configure monaco with that entry point and to use `globalAPI` using the `MonacoEnvironment`. This global needs to be set _before_ the monaco editor source is parsed so it will create a global api for this package to use.
    1. And example of steps 1 & 2 can be seen here: [./samples/parcel/index.html](). This was added to the html file to prevent parcel from including the monaco javascript above it
3. You should now be able to create monaco editors with `language: 'kusto'`. The kusto worker can be reached via the monaco global: `monaco.languages.kusto.getKustoWorker()`

### Setting a schema

There are 2 APIs to set a Kusto schema:

1. `setSchema` - the passed schema is of type `ClusterType` (defined in `schema.ts`).
   The database in ROOT.database will be the one in context.
2. `setSchemaFromShowSchema` - a method to set a schema from the result of the Kusto query `.show schema as json`.
   The result is a list of databases (see interface `Result` in `schema.ts`), so when this method is used,
   it also requires a cluster URI and the name of the database in context.

## Contributing

### Setting up a dev environment

1. Install Node.js 16 from https://nodejs.org/
2. Install Yarn from https://yarnpkg.com/
3. Clone repo and run `yarn` in repo root
4. Run `yarn watch` from /package and a live-server will automatically open the index.html

### Build for release

1. Set CI environment variable to "tru"
2. Run `yarn build`

## Changelog

### 6.2.0

-   Esm output not longer requires `self.MonacoEnvironment` to be true
-   `@kusto/monaco-kusto` no exports the same api as `monaco.languages.kusto`

### 6.0.0

-   Improved quality of AMD build artifacts
-   BREAKING CHANGE: AMD build artifacts now include a new "main" file that
    contains shared code
-   BREAKING CHANGE: ESM build artifacts no longer vender dependencies in a
    "deps" folder. node_modules imports are left as-is, and are now in
    package.json#dependencies

### 4.1.8

-   fix: trigger suggestion when previous suggestion selected.

### 4.1.6

-   fix: low color contrast for foreground/background in suggestWidget for dark theme

### 4.1.3

-   fix: low color contrast for foreground/background in suggestWidget

### 4.0.6

-   fix: `setSchemaFromShowSchema` now supports for external tables.

### 4.0.3

-   fix: update language service to latest version. fixes issues with scan operator being shown first in completion list.

### 4.0.2

-   fix: don't do kusto specific highlighting when other language is selected.

### 4.0.0

-   BREAKING CHANGE: update monaco-editor-core and monaco-editor version to 0.24.0
-   Usage for ESM modules: add `globalAPI: true` in window.MonacoEnvironment declaration to have `monaco` on the window

### 3.3.12

-   fix: external table erroneously shown for materialized views

### 3.2.11

-   feat: update language service

### 3.2.10

-   feat: expose custom syntax error message options

### 3.2.9

-   feat: update language service to support python code strings

### 3.2.8

-   fix: `RenderOptions` type missing `null` property union variants

### 3.2.7

-   fix: errors are shown twice on hover

### 3.2.6

-   update language service.

### 3.2.5

-   Expose formatting options

### 3.2.4

-   Bug fix: `union *` is auto-formatted into `union*`

### 3.2.3

-   Bug fix: Intellisense doesn't show columns when using this syntax `materialized_view("<table name>") | where `

### 3.2.2

-   Bug Fix: In `mv-expand kind=array` kind is shown with a squiggly error line
-   Update @kusto/language-service-next

### 3.2.1

-   Colorize public query options.
-   Bug Fix: Format query hangs in some use cases.

### 3.2.0

-   A function validation fails (shows squiggly red lines), if the function is defined with a parameter that has a default value, but it is used without passing a value for that parameter.
-   Fix bug: Scalars function parameters are always showing "Table expected" error with squiggly error red line when using setSchemaFromShowSchema.

### 3.1.0-beta.3

-   Missing tokens are no longer added when formatting queries.

### 3.0.1

-   Fix exception "Cannot read property 'getText' of null TypeError: Cannot read property 'getText' of null at e.parseDocumentV2"
-   Added a sample react project

### 3.0.0

-   Upgrade to latest monaco (which includes many changes amongst them accessibility improvements)

### 2.1.15

-   Fix typo in 2.1.14.

### 2.1.14

-   Add a theme with a darker background color.

### 2.1.13

-   Fix error "Database has no tables".

### 2.1.12

-   Allow formatting commands in cursor location.

### 2.1.11

-   Upgrade to latest bridge.net which fixes an exception from indexOf.

### 2.1.10

-   Schema with no functions was throwing "Cannot read property 'map' of undefined".

### 2.1.9

-   Add DocString to onHover tooltip

### 2.1.6

-   Update language service.

### 2.1.5

-   Updated render kind typing to include map.

### 2.1.4

#### Added

-   Added `enableHover` option to languages settingss.

### 2.1.3

#### Added

-   Added `onDidProvideCompletionItems` to languages settings as callback function for doComplete operations.

### 2.1.2

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `getCommandsInDocumentV2` not to take new lines as command.

### 2.1.1

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `doRangeFormat` to work with all kind of user text selection.

### 2.1.0

#### Added

-   Added esm release bundles.
-   Added package.json scripts to replace gulp completely.

### 2.0.9

#### Bug fix

-   Fix `getRenderInfo` in cases where there is not with clause.

### 2.0.8

#### Bug fix

-   Some more type fixes.

### 2.0.7

#### Bug fix

-   Fixed typings.

### 2.0.6

#### Added

-   Added `getRenderInfo` that returns the render command visualization options in a query.

### 2.0.5

#### Added

-   Added `setParameters` that set parameters to the schema without providing the entire schema.

### 2.0.4

#### Added

-   Added `getReferencedGlobalParams` that returns the global (ambient) parameters that are actually being referenced in the query.

### 2.0.3

#### Bug fix

-   Control command completion bug fix (updating intellisense library)

### 2.0.2

#### Bug fix

-   null pointer exception fix.

### 2.0.1

#### Bug fix

-   actually made the change described in 2.0.0

### 2.0.0 (11/20/2019)

#### Added

-   **[Breaking]** Change default to use intellisense V2

### 1.1.19 (11/18/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   fix exception in CM & DM clusters when intellisenseV2 is on

### 1.1.18 (11/18/2019)

#### Added

-   Abiltiy to get global parameters in scope (getGlobalParams)).

### 1.1.17 (11/14/2019)

#### Added

-   Ability to injet global parameters to intellisense (in setSchema)

### 1.1.16 (10/28/2019)

#### Added

-   Updated language service
-   Fix corrupt monaco.d.ts

### 1.1.15 (10/25/2019)

#### Added

-   Introduce a new function in language service called `getQueryParams`. it will return an array of all delcared query parameters for the query on cursor.

### 1.1.14 (9/16/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix 1.1.13 to return ranges based on 1 (as monaco expects) rather than 0 (as kusto language server returns).

### 1.1.13 (9/14/2019)

#### Added

-   Introduce a new function in language service called `getCommandAndLocationInContext`.
    it will return both the text and the range of the command in context.

### 1.0.12 (9/4/2019)

#### Added

-   Update language service to latest version.

### 1.0.11 (8/22/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix IE compatibility issue (remove new URL usage)

### 1.0.10 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix broken dependency on language service.

### 1.0.9 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   don't suggest chart types that we do not support yet.

### 1.0.8 (7/1/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   don't kill web worker after 2 minutes of inactivity by default. Reason: In exterme cases where schema is very large, trying to stringify the schema in web worker causes an OOM. This is configurable though.

### 1.0.6 (6/6/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix broken Diagnostics

### 1.0.5 (6/5/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   Fix vulnerability in dependency

### 1.0.4 (5/31/2019)

#### Added

-   Support for adding and removing line comments with keyboard shortcut.
-   Support hover

### 1.0.3 (5/31/2019)

#### Added

-   Support for go-to definition, find all refrences, rename symbol.

### 1.0.0 (1/31/2019)

#### Bug fix

-   **[Breaking]** put minified versions of language serivce in npm package.
-   **[How to migrate]**:
    include the .min (minified files) rather than the unminified files (which are no longer available)
    ```xml
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/bridge.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/kusto.javascript.client.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/newtonsoft.json.min.js"></script>
    <script src="%PUBLIC_URL%/monaco-editor/min/vs/language/kusto/Kusto.Language.Bridge.min.js"></script>
    ```

### 0.2.2 (12/28/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Increase contrast of operators in syntax highlighting.

### 0.2.2-alpha2 (12/21/2018)

#### Added

-   Updated dependency @kusto/language-service-next.

### 0.2.2-alpha (12/21/2018)

#### Added

-   Updated dependency on @kusto/language-service.

### 0.2.0 (12/14/2018)

#### Added

-   **[Breaking]** Support monaco-editor v15. This removes supprot for pre 15 versions.

### 0.1.27 (11/14/2018)

#### Added

-   Abiltiy to suppress completion items from intellisense.

### 0.1.26 (10/31/2018)

#### Added

-   Dark theme support (set by calling monaco.editor.setTheme('kusto.dark'))

### 0.1.25 (10/09/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Don't try to run logic on disposed models.

### 0.1.22 (9/27/2018)

#### Bug fix

-   Format current command always formatted the 1st command.

### 0.1.21 (9/23/2018)

#### Added

-   Removed completion options that arent' curerntly supported.

### 0.1.19

#### Bug fix

-   Colorization didn't work when asked to colorize entire document

### 0.1.18

#### Added

-   Updated language server dependnecy to latest version.

### 0.1.16

#### Bug Fix

-   improve V2 intellisense colorization performance.

### 0.1.15

#### Bug Fix

-   V2 intellisense now correctly reverts to V1 for control commands.

### 0.1.14

#### Bug Fix

-   Add decimal support to V2 instllisense .

### 0.1.13

#### Bug Fix

-   Fix v2 intellisense.

### 0.1.12

#### Bug Fix

-   fix quirks in interactions between non-semantic and semantic colorization by not using semantic coloring to color plain text.

### 0.1.11

#### Bug Fix

-   Fixed an issue where colorization is working on an older vesion of the document, which results in wrong colorization.

### 0.1.6

### Bug Fixes

-   Intellisense didn't work properly when editing in the middle of a block that is not the 1st block on the page.
-   Monarch colorization now colorizes sub-opeators the same as semantic colorization (which makes the changes less jarring when completing semantic colorization).
-   When switching context, colorization didn't recolorize.
-   (perf) Only colorize the currently edited block(s) - this supports multi-cursor editing
-   (perf) don't deeply parse the entire doc when doing completion. just get the list of commands and then parse the relevant command's all tokns.

### 0.1.1

### Added

-   removed semantic colorization from main thread. From now on basic colorization (schema-unaware) will happen on main thread, and semantic colorization will happen in background thread. This should improve typing performance
    on long rows, or on large databases.

### 0.1.0

#### Added

-   Support for DM intellisense

### 0.96

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix incorrect column types

### 0.95

#### Bug Fixes

-   upgrade to latest kusto.javascript.client (based on a newer version of bridge.net and the code itself)

### 0.94

#### Bug Fixes

-   upgrade to latest Kusto.Language.Bridge (based on a newer version of bridge.net and the code itself)

### 0.93

#### Bug Fixes

-   improve performance for function parsing by levaraging new functionality in Kusto.Language.Bridge.

### 0.91

#### Bug Fixes

-   Update langauge service dependencies to versions with unified bridge.net version and bridge.json settings.

### 0.90

#### Bug Fixes

-   **[breaking]** Cache clutsser schema in memory. This breaks backward compatibility since it now requries schema to include minor and major version of databases.

### 0.89

#### Bug Fixes

-   Upgrade version of Kusto.Language.Bridge so solve some issues.

### 0.88

#### Functionality

-   enable get current command logic to V2.

### 0.86

#### Bug Fixes

-   Fix ability to set schema using .show schema as json.

### 0.85

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix bug that caused diagnostics and colorizaiton to be wrong until first text was typed.

### 0.76

#### Bug Fixes

-   fix bug that rendered validation unusable

### 0.74

#### Functionality

-   Add colorization support to intellisense API v2

### 0.73

#### Functionality

-   Add functions support to intellisense API V2

### 0.72

#### Functionality

-   update version of @kusto/language-service-next to 0.0.10, integrated following functionality:

1. library orders items on its own, so no need to order in monaco-kusto
2. add support for the cursor not ending in the end of the completion text (like in the 1st parmaeter7 of a function for example)
3. add '|' after table name

-   Make sure to never parse the same text more than once.

### 0.71

#### Functionality

-   add diagnostics (a.k.a error message) support (when v2 parser enabled).

### 0.70

#### Functionality

-   add folding (a.k.a outlining) support. one can now fold commands and hide them from screen.

### 0.69

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]** - introduce new intellisense library (off by default).
    requires adding the following line to code

```html
<script src="../node_modules/kusto-language-service/kusto.javascript.client.js"></script>
```

### 0.68

#### Bug Fixes

-   **[breaking]** - Update monaco-editor peer dependency to "^0.12.0" because of bug fixes performed there. Also making the
    dependency more permissive (allow later minor versions).

### 0.67

#### Bug Fixes

-   Add missing dependency bridge newtonsoft.json.js to npm package.

### 0.65

#### Functionality

-   updated @kusto/lagnuage-service to latest version. this contains the latest operators, documentation, and charting logic.

### 0.64

#### Bug Fixes

-   Added peer dependency for `monaco-editor@0.11` so that consumers of the package get a warning if their version of monaco is too old.

### 0.63

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]** - The package now requires `monaco-editor@0.11.1` to function correctly. adds support for markdown in intellisense documentation.

### 0.62

#### Functionality

-   Added `setSchemaFromShowSchema`: a new method to set a schema from the result of .show schema as json exewcution

### 0.61

#### Functionality

-   **[breaking]**: make setSchema async so that big schemas do not block the ui thread (specifically - tokenization code is running in ui thread so it can block rendering).

### 0.60

#### Bug fixes

-   fixed label casing of `editor.action.kusto.formatCurrentCommand` command.

### 0.59

#### Functionality

-   add `getAdminCommand` method to `KustoWorker`, which returns an object with a boolean property signifying whether
    the text is an admin command, and a string property that contains the command without leading comments.

### 0.58

#### Bug fixes

-   null pointer exception when creating and destroying multiple monaco models

### 0.57

#### Functionality

-   add `getClientDirective` method to `KustoWorker`, which returns an object with a boolean property signifying whether
    the text is a client directive, and a string property that contains the directive without leading comments.

### 0.54

#### Bug fixes

-   fix getCurrentCommand bug when there are multiple commands in document

### 0.53

#### Bug fixes

-   fix intellisense issue when trying to get suggestions for a new query (2 newlines after previous query)

### 0.52

#### Bug fixes

-   command formatting and document formatting now work (ctrl K + ctrl F and alt+shift+F respectively)

### 0.49

#### Bug fixes

-   setSchema does not update syntax highlighting

# Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.
